# Deep learning-based models for histopathological classification of bone tumors
## What we did
The malignancy of primary bone tumors imposes great threats to the adolescent’s health (the 3rd leading cause of death for humans under 20 years of age).  Accurate diagnosis of bone tumors in terms of aggressiveness would direct a more appropriate treatment, and the histopathological assessment after biopsy remains decisive in determining the biological nature.  However, it is still challenging for general, especially inexperienced, pathologists to classify bone tumors microscopically because of the low incidence and various histological morphology. Deep learning-based approaches have shown promising results in histopathologically diagnosing tumors of epithelial origin but have been little verified for bone tumors. In this study, based on more than seven hundred thousand image patches of bone tumors generated from the region of interest annotated by pathologists from the tertiary medical center, we trained six wildly tested convolutional neural networks in classifying bone tumors histopathologically for patch-level binary (benign vs. non-benign) and ternary (benign vs. intermediate vs. malignant) classification and chose the best model according to the predictive performance on the testing dataset. Patch-level predictions were averaged to obtain the slide-level performance for models. We found that the deep learning model could reach a classification performance similar to senior pathologists in binary and ternary classification.  Visualization methods showed that the deep learning model could favorably depend on pathological features to make correct predictions.
## Source code related to this study
We uploaded the pytorch files including all parameters for six deep learning models after training patch-level binary and ternary classification (train_models folder). 
Considering the confidentiality of the study, we will later upload the related code usage instruction and representative datasets after the study going public on the scientific journal.
